[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
While so many people
are focused on
what is being lost
in terms of our
way of life, there
are others who are focused on
the creation of a new world,
or a new way of life.
Jan Engels-Smith is a
psychotherapist and shaman.
Her work is helping people birth
their own higher frequencies,
which in turn, create
higher outcomes
in the world around us.
Through experiences
with parallel timelines,
multiple personalities,
and time shifts,
Jan shares the miracle of
what's possible once we
choose a higher way of living.
Welcome, Jan.
I've interviewed you before.
We've had a lot of chats
and been on live shows
together and so forth.
But I've never seen
in the flesh till now.
You're just as beautiful.
>>JAN ENGELS-SMITH:
Well, so are you.
>>REGINA: More beautiful.
>>SMITH: : This is so fun to
actually sit in your presence.
>>REGINA: It's wonderful
to be with you.
What I love about you is you
have this really clear way
of articulating themes
that are quite deep.
And I think your
background, having
been through rigorous
academics and your work
as a psychotherapist, really
has set a wonderful framework
for you to be able to
explain what you experienced
and what you are here to
teach from the world--
the worldview of a shaman.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: I mean, these are
very separate worlds, but really
complementary in your case.
>>SMITH: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And I want to
start with when you
were a student,
because this is really
a launching off point
for you, and I just
mentioned it a moment ago.
In dealing with multiple
personalities in the world
that that opened up to you.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So, please.
>>SMITH: Sure.
That was back-- it was one of
my first jobs out of college
with my masters
into psychotherapy,
and I was working in
a dissociative ward
in a mental hospital.
And one of the doctors
that I was working with
was very different.
He was from Africa and
had been brought over.
And he had incredible approaches
with multiple personality
disorder.
So it brought a lot of
attention to his work,
and they decided to
film some of our--
they had a panel
discussion and were
going to film some
of these really
extraordinary experiences.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, this
is quite gutsy for the world
of medicine.
>>SMITH: And this
is back in the '70s.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I mean, that's
really open-minded.
>>SMITH: It was
very open-minded.
And so anyway, we
had different people
that had very severe differences
in their different alters,
which is the different
personalities that come out
with multiple personality.
And one that-- a very dramatic
one had cerebral palsy
and so he was very deformed.
And they had doctors come
in and measure his bones
and the atrophy in his muscles,
and all this kind of stuff.
And he diagnosed absolutely,
this is permanent damage.
There could be the
deformation here is absolute.
There could be no
altering this whatsoever.
Had him change alters, and he
turned into like an athletic
looking man.
I mean, it was just like, boom.
>>REGINA: Seriously?
>>SMITH: Seriously.
>>REGINA: I mean, even
physically he could--
>>SMITH: Physically, he turned
into a different stature.
He had no deformities
whatsoever.
The doctor actually
got quite aggravated,
feeling that there had
been some sort of--
>>REGINA: He'd been played?
>>SMITH: He'd been played, yeah.
But it was astounding to see
what had happened in these two
different personalities.
And many of these people
had several personalities.
Not just two or
three, like 20, 30.
But these two played out.
Another man was blind and he had
a blue casting over his eyes.
You know how some
blind eyes are--
>>REGINA: Like an
opaque, milky blue.
>>SMITH: And again, had
different testing done.
There's no light going into the
retina, all this kind of stuff.
They had all the
medical records.
Changed alters, completely
sighted, you know.
In fact, I just read something
just this morning, actually,
that Cynthia Sue
Larson sent to me
that said she also
does, you know,
the different
parallel realities.
And it was about a case study of
that right there with multiple.
And so, you know, they
change in front of your eyes.
So when I was young, this
was so amazing to me.
I had no shamanic
experience at this time.
I'd just graduated
out of school,
but it had such an impact on
me that I never forgot it.
And so when I then
learned shamanism
and I saw how people could alter
and change in healing sessions,
it allowed me to hold the
belief of that being possible.
And I think when the shaman
holds the belief, when they
can see you in a
different way, they
have the ability to see that.
Then that work can
then be transferred
into the actual
healing experience.
>>REGINA: OK.
So I want to go back a minute.
All right.
We've got a lot to talk
about when people are--
I mean, I know many people in
the audience, including myself,
were saying, well, wait
a minute, what happened?
So did the man who
had previously,
as you say he had
physical deformities,
after the session was
over, what was he?
Was he--
>>SMITH: He can be--
>>REGINA: --intact?
>>SMITH: He can be any of
them that he chooses to be.
They're all different--
>>REGINA: Even though they
had tested him neurologically
and said, no, this
chronic disease
has overtaken his nervous
system and it's impossible?
>>SMITH: And so the--
>>REGINA: So what's
going on there?
>>SMITH: Well, you have the
medical reason and now--
>>REGINA: No, not
the medical reason.
What's the real reason?
What's going on there?
>>SMITH: What I'm
interested-- and I can't say--
speak, you know,
absolute, but the more I'm
learning about
parallel realities
and how we have multiple
versions of ourselves in any--
any possibility is possible
for any moment in time
for yourself.
I'm realizing that that is
one of the ways a possibility
that's happening there.
And that's what this paper was
on in "Scientific American."
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So in your parlance, that
might be parallel lifetimes.
>>SMITH: Well, not
really lifetimes
because it's one lifetime.
>>REGINA: It's parallel--
>>SMITH: Realities.
>>REGINA: --realities?
>>SMITH: Parallel
expressions of self.
>>REGINA: But I mean, the
same soul motivating it?
>>SMITH: Same soul.
>>REGINA: Choosing to have a
lot of different expressions
within a given lifetime?
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And that's
what we might be seeing
with multiple personalities?
>>SMITH: It could be.
>>REGINA: It could be.
>>SMITH: And what we can
be doing for ourselves.
Like where I take
this now, you know,
to me this is about healing.
And if you have a
person that you're
working on that has
something chronic,
and we're doing
shamanic work, we're
doing ceremony and various
things like that in order
to possibly get them to
shift, or to have a miracle,
or to have this
healing take place.
But what if it's
more of shifting
into a parallel dimension,
into a parallel reality where
you don't have that
expressed illness?
And that's what I'm very
curious about, how to do that.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And also, the fact that
you would have in this one
situation you spoke about a
person sighted in one reality
and blind in another.
I mean, in a sense, you look
at the fast track to learning
to have both of these
experiences within a given
lifetime.
I mean, that's interesting
on a soul development level.
>>SMITH: Right.
Oh, for sure.
And again, some of these
people would have, you know,
10, 20 different personalities.
Like I had a client that her
main alter was about five years
old and even though she--
>>REGINA: And her
physical age was what?
>>SMITH: She was
probably in her 30s.
And, you know, when we
were doing our sessions,
I'd have her bring her
dolls and stuff like that.
We do it that way.
But then when we were
done, I'd say, OK,
you need to bring in anybody
over 16 to drive you home.
[LAUGHING]
>>REGINA: And she could
functionally do that?
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
They can just change on a dime.
Now, the big difference
that I'm seeing
how you and I can
change realities, which
we are doing all the time.
You know, we are shifting
into parallel realities,
different expressions
of ourselves.
Our intentions do that for us.
Our prayers do that for us.
But then what we tend
to do is we go back
and we remember
the old problems.
And that memory then shifts us
back into that old expression.
We're jumping back and forth.
The difference with
multiple people
is they don't have the memory.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: And when they shift,
they honestly don't know that
they were this--
>>REGINA: They don't know this
other limitation, for example,
or possibility even.
>>SMITH: Right.
Right.
They're completely shifting
into that life expression,
that consciousness of themselves
in that life expression.
Where when you and I shift,
we're shifting with memory.
And so to me, that's where
a lot of my work is now
and how to get people to shift
and really live as if they're
in that new expression.
>>REGINA: Well,
thank you for that
as a little intro to
a larger conversation,
because now we're going
to go into, again,
a notion of a parallel reality.
And then there are
parallel timelines,
and it all really becomes quite
confusing for an individual.
But I love this story.
So let's start
with the story when
you would go to the retreat
area with the boulder.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
The boulder story.
And not Boulder, Colorado.
The boulder, big boulder.
>>SMITH: The boulders, OK.
>>REGINA: Boulders.
>>SMITH: Well, it started
about five years ago
and I do a retreat every year.
This is our 34th
coming up this year
and we're going to try to figure
out how to do it virtually.
>>REGINA: Oh, boy.
>>SMITH: But anyway, I
walk a road every day,
several times a day.
And one day I was walking down
this road with this friend
of mine, Terry.
And I said, Terry, where did
these boulders come from?
We were crossing a bridge.
There was a little stream that
goes under the bridge that
meets a river.
And these boulders were huge,
like the size of automobiles.
And in my world as a shaman
or shamanic practitioner,
I would greet these
boulders as grandmothers.
You know, I'd say
hello, gatekeepers
of the stream and river
and that type of thing.
And so when I said
that to Terry,
he's looking at
me like, Jan, what
do you want, the geologic
explanation of how
they got there?
He's laughing.
And I realized how
goofy my question was.
But I had never noticed them.
And so every time we went by
for the next several years,
and several times a
day, I would go out
of my way in some sort
of animated thing,
hello, you know,
nice to see you.
>>REGINA: Hello, grandmothers.
Grandmother boulders.
>>SMITH: Some way to just like
really accent my acknowledging
them.
Well, then one year I'm
going along the road.
Terry wasn't there.
The first year he
had ever missed.
And I was there with
a friend, Colleen.
And we got to the same place.
And I looked at her and I said,
Colleen, where's the boulders?
And she said, what
boulders, Jan?
And I said, the
boulders that I have
been greeting for the
last five years every time
I walked by here.
There is no boulders here, Jan.
And right then I knew.
I knew that the spirits
were showing me something.
They were catching my
attention in a big way.
Now, why I would think that
is because of my training.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>SMITH: Like discounting it
like, oh, man, that's weird.
I knew-- I knew that they
were showing us something.
And so that started
my study with it.
And that's when I contacted
Cynthia Sue about parallel--
>>REGINA: And I've
had Cynthia Sue
on my show a couple of times
here talking about this,
because she's had very
similar experiences.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And she, of
course, really focuses
on the Mandela effect.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SMITH: Which would
be a version of this.
So that year went by.
We did a lot of work
around it, realizing
that you can intentionally step
into another parallel reality.
So we were practicing.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's-- so your
friend, Colleen,
had she ever been past those
boulders in previous years?
>>SMITH: Not that
she remembered.
>>REGINA: So for you--
I mean, she-- had
she been on that walk
before in previous years?
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Right.
So in her walk, there
were no boulders.
>>SMITH: That she remembered.
>>REGINA: In your walk each
year, there were boulders.
>>SMITH: That's right.
So I call those markers.
And so we have these
markers of what's the same
and what's a little
different will tell you
which reality you were in
at any particular moment.
So I'm going to fast
forward another year.
So I have this story
I'm telling camp.
We've got, you know,
70 people in camp
that I'm telling
about this story
and they're all
wide-eyed and excited.
But it was still my experience.
And I was the only
one that had it.
So the following year, we
get back and more markers
were given to the whole camp.
Now, several of these people
have been with me for years.
And this is like the big
thing to go to this retreat
every summer.
And there is a prayer tent
that we have that's set up
that's very large that will
house maybe 40 or 50 people
under it.
And it's set between two trees.
So I had it custom made to
fit on this piece of land
so that it would fit
between these two markers.
And then I sit in
the middle of that.
And then there is a sacred fire
there and a sweat lodge here.
So I line my heart up with
going through the fire
and going into the
lodge door, OK?
We get to the land
and set up the tent,
which can only go in one place.
And all of a sudden,
I'm sitting over there.
And people are going, what
are you doing over there, Jan?
And I said, I'm lined up
with the fire and the lodge.
So I was about six or
seven feet to the right.
So that's showing this
reality, this Earth is tilted--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: --off--
>>SMITH: --that much difference.
>>REGINA: Because it still
appeared that way to you.
>>SMITH: It appeared
that way to everybody.
Everybody knew
where I always sat.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>SMITH: And that I was in
the middle of the prayer tent.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: And now--
so that was a marker
so that everybody could
have this experience.
Look at this marker and what
has shifted that you normally
wouldn't noticed.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: OK.
Then another one was when we're
walking down this one road
and we're going out
to a particular area.
You have to climb over
this huge fir tree that
had fallen years and years ago.
And we always have a person
standing there helping you,
because you had to hoist
yourself up to get over it.
The tree's gone.
There was no-- no
clumps of trees.
You know, the tree is huge.
And so--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: --to take-- you could
not take it out of there.
There was no indication--
>>REGINA: You would see wood
chips and destruction and lying
underneath it, yeah.
>>SMITH: Or even
pieces of wood--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: --rounds of wood.
>>SMITH: Nothing.
It was like--
>>REGINA: It's as though it had
never been disturbed and never
been there.
>>SMITH: So that, to
me, was for the camp.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: They were-- it
wasn't my experience anymore.
But this is training for us
that it is important for us
to notice and start
noticing these markers.
Because realities are
shifting all of the time.
And it's when you
start paying attention
to that that you understand
its validity and its truth.
>>REGINA: And then if you
understand that, presumably,
it's going to give you the
confidence when you're primed
to shift a perception and
shift to physical reality,
you already have markers, as
you say, and your view-- as you
witness that you've already
seen this is possible.
>>SMITH: That's exactly right.
>>REGINA: So it's kind of
confidence building in a way.
>>SMITH: It is.
And, you know, it's
that thing where when
it's in your consciousness,
when you've obtained it
in your consciousness,
that it then allows
you to see it more often.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
OK.
So I don't know if this
is the right time to do it
or not but I want to.
2013 you sat with an
elder from a reservation,
there was Sundance, the--
asking the medicine men to--
something about aligning with
the Stargate, as I recall.
Let's talk about
what happened there.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
That was post 2012.
So in 2012, you know,
we had the unraveling
of the bondage of humanity,
which was a really big deal.
So in 2013, there was a
Stargate that was opening.
And some of the
elders that I know of
were all excited about this.
Well, it turned out
that the Stargate
was opening exactly when
I was having my retreat.
That was the week
that it was open.
You know, go figure.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>SMITH: So we very
much took this to heart,
that this was divinely planned.
And I had a astrological
chart made up
of the alignment of the
planets, and then had
imbued different crystals,
and had everything set up
on a two-dimensional platform
so that we could really
honor this process.
And then ceremonially opened
that Stargate in my version--
in our version of it.
And the purpose of
the Stargate was
that if we had a
unraveling or a dismantling
of a particular paradigm, or
a particular way of being,
let's say, 25,000 years of
bondage sort of thing, then
what do you want the
next 25,000 years?
If that's unraveled,
then what are you
going to put into motion?
And so we came up with
our own version of that,
things that we felt
were important.
And we chose words
such as collaboration,
unification, support, and love.
That those are the cornerstones
of how we would want humanity
to be functioning.
And then threading through
that was non competition,
or no competition.
And-- and so to
us, that was like,
these words hold the
frequencies for the new Earth.
And the spirits have been
very, very clear with me
from the very
beginning of my work
that I was a carrier of
the new Earth energies.
And so I feel like all
of the things that I
have done in my work have
been around that topic
and in preparation for--
>>REGINA: This time.
>>SMITH: --this time.
And even the parallel realities
that, you know, like, OK,
there is the reality that
the new Earth already exists
and then moving into it.
>>REGINA: And a lot of
people talk about this time
that we're in right
now because it
is so challenging to so many.
Saying-- especially people who
have an intuitive sense or talk
with their guides
that, yeah, we are--
we have to choose the outcome
on this one, you know.
And that we can choose a
higher or a lower outcome.
And you watch
people and you start
looking at the
amount of mass fear,
for example, that's being
propagated by the media
and frightening the
bejesus out of people.
Because we simply
don't know what is
and what isn't true
around this whole thing.
I'm talking about the
pandemic, of course.
And so you-- then you listen
to someone like yourself,
or I interviewed Carl Calleman.
And Carl Calleman, from
the Mayan calendar,
was talking about how this
ninth wave of consciousness
is there for us to open up into.
And it's exactly what
you talked about.
It's about unification
and collaboration,
coming together as a
people, as a species,
instead of competing
with each other.
And you hear this-- it
seems to be reflected
through many different lenses,
more of an indigenous nature,
in particular.
>>SMITH: Well, for sure,
the indigenous natures
have been around for hundreds
of thousands of years.
And the newer ones have only
been around for about 50.
>>REGINA: Yeah, about 50.
But this notion that through
this crisis that we're in
gives us the chance to
evolve into a more unity
type of consciousness.
>>SMITH: Right.
And another big aspect of
that that I didn't mention,
but I think is
very important, is
that it was the 2012
was also a dismantling
of the outer authority--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SMITH: --and moving
into the inner authority.
And inner authority means,
to me, an inner alignment
within yourself.
Not that you have this
power to force things.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: But it's like the
idea and the concept which
has actually been around
since the beginning of time,
too, that the universe
is inside of you.
And what is inside of you is
then reflected to the outside.
And that's what you see.
So when you want to
change the outside world,
you have to change the
inside world first.
And that's where
primarily my work
is today is helping people to--
>>REGINA: Find their
inner authority.
>>SMITH: Inner authority,
and find where they're un--
suffering and unhappy so they
can align that and then change
their outside world.
>>REGINA: And one of the things
you talked about was after this
period, you came to realize--
or I don't know if it
was expressly spoken--
that strict methodology, for
example, was no longer needed.
>>SMITH: Right.
I think that-- you know, I'm
a methods person, you know.
I have a science background and,
you know, the psychotherapy.
But I think that we have to
move into an understanding
of the magic, and that we are
the creators of our realities.
And can you prove this?
Maybe, maybe not.
But you have to move into
a greater concept, a higher
level of consciousness.
That's what the new Earth is.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: It's a higher
level of consciousness.
>>REGINA: And it
can be empirical.
It doesn't have to be
materialistically proven.
It--
>>SMITH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: One of the--
>>REGINA: And we need
to disconnect from that
because the reality is--
the nature of reality
is completely invisible forces.
Even if you were to look
at us on a quantum level,
we're invisible--
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --right?
>>SMITH: I think one of the
worst things that ever happened
to humanity was that they
put science and mysticism
against each other.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Scientific materialism
has a place.
But not an exclusion--
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: --of the other.
>>SMITH: Well, they
started competing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: And then that
handicapped both of them.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SMITH: And when
you can marry them
without competing and
accepting both at the level
that they're able to
explain, then you've
got a lot of permission.
You have unlimited
possibilities.
But if you try to
prove everything,
you're just
handicapping yourself.
Because the miracles
will prove it,
what you'll see, what you'll
experience, what you'll feel.
>>REGINA: I couldn't
agree with you more.
And that's what-- in my opinion,
that's the beauty of this time.
I think that's why Gaia exists
is because people are now
curious to begin marrying
those in their own psyche.
And also by way of
validating themselves, too.
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And
understanding they're
not crazy for going
with the spiritual path,
for example, and finding
some scientific validity
for having chosen
that to explain
to families and friends.
Sometimes it's as simple as
trying to validate oneself.
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: But in fact, to
be able to work with both
forces is truly powerful.
>>SMITH: And, you know, Gaia
is a very high conscious.
You know, it's a high frequency
and it's here to help,
for sure, all the
programming that you guys do.
It's beautiful.
But quantum physics has
come into the picture,
too, for that same reason.
And I just believe
that quantum physics is
shamanism in the science field.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SMITH: I mean, what
they say, it's like, yep,
we've been saying
this, you know,
for many thousands of years.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So now there's
just the language for it.
>>SMITH: There's
a language for it.
>>REGINA: So one of the
other things that came up
is that you realized that
time is being altered.
And when you and I had one
conversation in the past,
you were talking about how
time had to present itself
the way it has in the
past, which is certainly
the bane of most
people's existence
is nothing seems to
happen fast enough.
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: So now, explain
what's happening with time,
and why through your lens,
it had to be that way.
>>SMITH: Well, time saves us.
People want instant
manifestation,
but they don't realize
that that takes
an extremely focused mind.
Because they would literally
self-destruct within seconds.
Because one random thought--
and if you had
instant manifestation,
you would cause tremendous
harm, you know, just--
>>REGINA: Just in our
normal careless thoughts
throughout the day.
>>SMITH: Yes.
And so-- exactly.
Exactly.
Our speech is sloppy, you know,
all kinds of different things.
And so the time has been
a real buffer for us
so that it teaches us how to
focus if you practice this.
If you really want to manifest
and manifest what you want,
instead of what you don't want.
Because I believe people
are manifesting 24/7--
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, absolutely.
>>SMITH: --you know,
it never stops.
We're manifesting beings.
We're creator beings.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: And-- but to
really fine tune that,
to get it into
the level of where
you want to go, then that
takes much focused intention.
And the more that you do
that, the faster things
will happen because you
are in alignment with--
there's a training
or a purification
that happens inside of you
when you learn how to focus
and to still your mind.
And that-- I think
that that is part
of the process where it shows
up then in the good things
that you manifest.
Because you're really not
having the negative thoughts.
>>REGINA: So if you were in
alignment with your soul's
purpose, your soul's desire
and choice of expression
in a given lifetime, it's
learning in a given lifetime,
would you say then that is kind
of an anchor point with which
to start using your focus
so that you can have kind
of a cleaner process
of manifestation
so that when time does
speed up and you do gain
your will and your focus, you're
in alignment with something
higher.
>>SMITH: Yes.
I would say that that
is a big part of it.
The other thing that I think is
a major part is your feelings.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SMITH: And--
because your feelings
are the things that really
start the manifestation.
So you can be in alignment
with your purpose
and still have very
low frequency feelings
that can get in your way.
They can create all kinds of
obstacles and difficulties
for you, and things like that.
Where when you start
broadcasting these higher
frequencies, and then have
your intention of your purpose,
that's when there is
magic that happens.
It's--
>>REGINA: And you say now
we're at a point in time
where if you can bring
these things together,
we can far more--
with more certainty,
begin manifesting
almost instantaneously.
It's OK to begin doing
that now, if these things
are in alignment.
>>SMITH: Right.
You have-- you can't be
in the doom and gloom--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: --of everything.
>>SMITH: You have to
be realizing that--
I believe part of
this pandemic is
life saying, go within,
go within your house,
but go within.
This is time to quit
looking at the world
and blaming the world, and
start looking to where you're
out of alignment
inside and start
registering these higher
frequency energies.
And if people have trouble with
that, one of the most easiest,
to me, is to just
feel appreciation.
If you can feel
appreciation, and that
would be no matter what
is happening in your life,
do you have more than
one pair of shoes?
Do you have one more pot or pan?
You know, I've traveled the
world, and a lot of people
don't, you know.
And so you can find things to
appreciate and embody that.
Not just thinking
about appreciation,
but what does it feel
like to feel appreciation?
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
That's the real juice.
>>SMITH: That is the juice.
That is the key.
>>REGINA: It's like
the magnetic power
that allows something to
come into a physically
manifested state.
And I couldn't agree more.
I think you can call it
appreciation or gratitude,
either one.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: That is a
really high frequency.
>>SMITH: Yes, very high.
>>REGINA: Because
people often think--
I believe many people think
they have to become a master--
masterful.
Do this, this number of times
for this number of weeks
or months or years, and
you can start reaching
into these high frequencies.
No, you can sit down and raise
your frequencies on a dime
by just really appreciating
something wonderful
in your life, or someone.
Your frequencies just
shoot through the roof.
I mean, I think in
heart math, you know,
they've been able to register
what happens when you do this.
So I couldn't agree more.
This is the simplest path
to raising frequencies.
>>SMITH: Right.
And it's not about
what you're saying.
Like the spirits will always
say, you can't trick energy.
>>REGINA: Right.
You have to feel it.
>>SMITH: You can't say one
thing and feel another.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>SMITH: So people will say,
but I was doing my affirmations
and I was doing this.
And I said, what do you feel?
Frustrated.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's what you got.
>>SMITH: That's what you got.
You know, it's like you--
it's not about what you
say, it's what you feel.
>>REGINA: It's what
you feel, yeah.
>>SMITH: And learning how
to really embody that.
And they have done
enough studies now
that they're saying,
you know, that that's
what the matrix, that
invisible web that
is connecting all things, is
actually made out of emotion.
It's an emotional frequency.
>>REGINA: And a lot of people--
a lot of people,
I think, have yet
to distinguish or know how
to distinguish emotions
from feelings, too.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because there
is a subtle difference
there that does matter.
And maybe explain that since
we're talking about emotions.
>>SMITH: Well, I know--
I know that you are an advocate
for the mattering and to me,
for the novice it's like--
>>REGINA: They don't matter.
>>SMITH: --they don't matter.
It's just like we don't need
to split that hair, you know.
It's just like, let's--
if we can get you into this--
>>REGINA: Just getting
into the good feelings.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>REGINA: All right.
And so you're talking about
getting into those-- getting
into that space allows us to
reach a type of vibration that
allows us then in a
responsible manner
to begin bringing our
thoughts and ideas
and our will together
to begin manifesting
this new, more unified reality
that we're talking about.
So what happens when
you have something
like this COVID thing
that hits the planet,
and there's a lot of conflicting
information out there?
And people are afraid for
the lives of their loved
ones and their own lives.
And this is permeating the
field of consciousness.
>>SMITH: The spirits told
me one year in a meditation,
they said, every person
born has the full capacity
to change the world
single-handedly.
When they said that,
I thought now, how--
how is that possible?
You know, like not everybody
wants to be an activist.
Not everybody wants to go
out there and, you know,
raise a banner and--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: --be on
the front lines.
But what I realized right
then is what we've been
talking about, everybody feels.
And so it doesn't matter how
much it's in the collective.
It doesn't matter
what's out there.
What matters is what's in
here and what you attune to.
When you attune to those higher
frequencies, then you're there.
And the world will
seem different to you.
>>REGINA: Right.
And that's what I was
going to say a moment ago,
not playing devil's
advocate, just
looking at it in this
way, when they said,
every human being has the
power to change the world
within them.
Well, your world and your
reality is your creation.
So you're certainly
changing your world.
Does that by extension
mean that it's
changing the world of others?
>>SMITH: Abso-- well, it means
if you look at it from parallel
realities--
>>REGINA: OK, let's.
>>SMITH: --and that everybody's
in their own parallel reality--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SMITH: --then in my parallel
reality, I would include you,
Regina.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: You know, and I would
include all those people.
And it's-- I am having
this personal experience
of my reality, which is
beautiful and I love it.
And so if you want to look
at changing a collective,
I think when enough people
are doing that, then, yes, we
will have a collective shift.
Do I think that you
can have this shift
before that's happening?
Yes, I do.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SMITH: I think you
can have it personally,
and you can have
it collectively.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we do know that our
thoughts do an imprint
on the field around
us and at large.
And the end-- that in the
greater field, we are unified.
And certainly, if we have a
preponderance of thought forms,
of feelings, that can see this
unity consciousness beginning
to happen, we're going to start
magnetizing others toward that.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: I mean, that is true.
So I want to go into another
one of your quirky experiences.
OK.
Let me look where this was.
This one is kind of
fun because we're
talking about using our
frequencies to essentially
raise the vibration
of the planet, right?
This is a story that
you had a gathering out
on the land in Tillamook, OK?
And you had arrived, and there
was something just devastating
going on.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: So I love your story.
So let's go on,
because this is part
of what we're talking
about about consciousness
affecting the whole.
>>SMITH: It-- it is actually a
great story to kind of refine
this whole thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: So again,
I do this retreat,
and I usually
arrive a couple days
before people start coming
so I can work with the land
and I can have a
shamanic practice.
I do all those things.
I go out and talk
to the trees and--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: --you know, go out and
do all these different things.
Well, when I arrived,
right across the river
there was a clear
cutting going on.
Oh, my god.
You know, the saws and the
crashing trees and the beeping
trucks.
I mean, it was horrible.
And I thought, what
am I going to do?
I have, you know,
70, 80 people that I
would classify as tree huggers.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: That could put them
into an absolute tailspin--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: --with this.
Talk about bringing up emotions.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: And so I had these
visions of myself, you know.
I'm going to march over
there and just tell them.
And I could see myself like
and they're like, lady, get out
of here, you know.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: So I sat down to pray.
And I thought, OK, what
am I going to do here?
And I go into this prayer,
and the spirit said,
you know exactly what to do.
And I was like, I do?
I don't know if I do.
>>REGINA: Remind me.
>>SMITH: Remind me.
>>REGINA: I'm upset.
>>SMITH: And they
said, figure it out.
And so I was like, oh, gees,
figure it out, you know.
And they did it lovingly.
My spirits are
always very loving.
So I knew that this wasn't
a criticism by any means.
But they were making
me own my stuff.
So I have CDs.
I do a lot of guided
meditations for people
and a lot of various
things like that.
So I pulled out one of
them, and it's called,
"Dream a New Dream."
Because my intention
was, my new dream,
my new reality that I wanted
was that this clear cutting
was over.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: That my
practicum, my retreat
was going to be beautiful.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SMITH: And so I
started doing this,
and I went through the process
of the suggestions on the CD.
And the next thing you know,
I'm feeling this love for wood.
I love wood products.
I love decking, and I love
wood floors and homes and paper
products, you know.
Just all these beautiful
things that wood gives us.
>>REGINA: Appreciation, again.
>>SMITH: Appreciation, yes.
And then I was thinking
about the people
that are over there working and
how they're bringing a paycheck
home, and they're putting
shoes on their kids' feet,
and they're putting food on
the table, and it's a hard job,
and they're working
hard for their families.
And so again, I'm in
this appreciation.
So by the time I came
out of this journey,
I'm just like floating around
and I'm journey into the saws,
and I'm just in this
little bubble of glow.
So the next day the people--
some of the people
start arriving.
And we have-- we have a thing
called, The Good Message,
what is the good
message for the day.
And so as the people
were coming in,
the good message was is
to honor this process
and be in appreciation
for what's going on.
And everybody did.
I was so amazed, like I didn't
have a balk out of any of it.
So it was still going
on that next day.
The third day when
we were finally
ready to start the ceremony, I
got up to call in the spirits
and I started whistling.
And as soon as I
started whistling,
everything turned off.
The trucks turned off.
The saws turned off.
They left the camp.
And that was it.
And I was like, oh, my god.
You know, where I'd-- we're all
kind of staring at each other.
Later on when I had a
moment to quiet myself
and to ask the spirit,
you know, what happened?
What really happened here?
Explain this to me.
And they said, you became the
frequency of what you wanted.
When you become the
frequency of what you want,
that's a direct match,
instantly manifests.
>>REGINA: And you had
had enough experience
to understand these
things happen.
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: This is part of
the matrix of your reality.
A lot of people would say,
they would-- the frus--
they wouldn't be able to
overcome the frustration.
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: Thinking
this is impossible,
they have to stay on schedule.
They've got money
to make, you know.
This thing is bigger than me.
But we have to
suspend our disbelief
in working with this notion--
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --that
you're talking about.
>>SMITH: This is
the critical time.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SMITH: This is what we're
being asked to do, to go within
and to really find what
do you believe about life?
What do you believe
about spirit?
about your connection?
What do you believe about love?
And you need to
take a bright light
and shine it on those
beliefs, because they're
running the show for you.
And that's what I'm
talking about aligning.
And this is a course
that I'm teaching right
now called, Recreate.
It's like how do you
recreate yourself.
Because you have to find what's
running the show for you.
And if you decide to be in fear,
then that's your given right.
You get to.
You know, you have
the right to choose.
But if you want to be a match
for what I believe the bigger
picture is that's going on, then
you have the tools to do that.
We can get you in alignment.
>>REGINA: And again, there are
a couple of things-- principles.
First, do no harm.
Obviously, what you're
going to create, do no harm.
>>SMITH: Do no harm.
>>REGINA: Do no harm.
And beyond that,
you're free to create
if it's in this higher
alignment with the good.
>>SMITH: Well, you're on--
you're doing it inside
of yourself.
You're not doing
anything to anybody else.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: You are aligning--
when you align your inner
world, your outer world changes.
Doesn't mean you're
changing the outer world.
Your outer world changes.
It is a personal
reality that you see.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
So we're talking about
bringing this together.
We've talked about
some of the principles.
And we've talked about
even as an entree
to it, using gratitude
or appreciation.
But the feelings that
drive it, something
you're just so grateful for us.
And now you've lifted
your frequencies up.
Now, when we're in meditation,
that's pretty easy to do.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Then you get out of
your little meditation chair.
You go back into your
living room, or the kitchen,
where maybe your
son and daughter
are in a fight and whatnot.
How do people keep their
vibratory frequencies high?
This is the big conundrum.
You can find it.
You can do it.
But really trying to sustain
those higher frequency feelings
is challenging for people.
>>SMITH: Right.
And it is training.
It is training yourself.
And it's interesting
because this retreat
that I'm talking about
over and over again,
we've decided that we're
going to move virtual.
Now, how you do this
kind of retreat virtual,
because there are
so many distractions
when you're doing it virtual.
Because we're
sequestered on this land.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
It's like with a lot of
people that go to conferences,
you come out of bliss
bunny, then you go home.
>>SMITH: Right.
And that's--
>>REGINA: And
everything changes.
>>SMITH: And the spirits
have said over and over,
you have a perfect
microcosm of the new Earth
when you're there.
But now, how do you
have it at home?
You lose it when you go home.
So exactly what--
I feel like we're the
template that we work
on these things for people.
And that how do you
find that type of focus
and that type of
ability to not be
distracted when
you've got kids, when
you've got things
going on in your house,
when you've got
meals, all of that.
And this is what we're
going to be working on.
Because it is the answer.
And it is taking, again,
that focus off the outside
and what are you
going to do about it?
How are you going to do it?
For me, a simple--
when I can feel
blue, or when I'm
feeling upset about
something, very
simply to raise my
vibration, I try
to say as many high frequency
words as I can think of.
>>REGINA: And this is good.
>>SMITH: You know, beauty,
wonder, stellar, magnificent.
>>REGINA: Just as we hear
them, I'm listening to you,
it automatically--
the connotations bring
your feelings higher.
>>SMITH: Yeah, because they
are actually frequencies.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SMITH: Those words
are frequencies.
And they're having an effect
on your overall frequency.
And it only takes 16 seconds
to change your frequency.
Not very long.
And so that's what
I do in a pinch.
I do it as soon as
I get into my car
before I take off and
drive so that I just
have really great experiences
while I'm driving.
And I'm-- I've trained myself.
And, you know, we--
we can't be blaming.
We can't be putting it off
on somebody else anymore.
We've got to say the
intention, I want to do this.
And then give me the tools.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: And that's-- there's a
lot of people that supply tools
out there.
I supply tools out
there, can teach you
how to do this if you just
understand the laws of energy.
You don't have to
learn shamanism.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: You just have to
understand how energy works,
because it's an energetic
universe, period.
It's binary.
>>REGINA: Right.
Period.
>>SMITH: It's a 01.
You know, it's like a computer.
It's a high frequency,
or it's a low frequency--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: --one of the two.
And so whatever one you're
feeding in your feelings,
you will be attuned to.
You will be in alignment with.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
You know, one
thing you say, too,
is during this period of time
is we need to kind of stay away
from the ego battles,
too, when we're talking
about disrupting our fields.
And right now, because of the
fracture in belief systems,
which is very, very
steep and severe now,
to the point where a
lot of family members
can't even talk in a civil
way to one-- with one another.
So let's talk about
that notion that we
have to get out of
this ego position
and we have to stop doing
battle in terms of keeping
our frequencies high.
But also, in terms of
helping with the whole.
>>SMITH: Right.
One of the things that
I find with people
is that they feel like they
have to prove something, or get
somebody else to believe
the same way they
do to be either validated and/or
understood, or proven a point.
And again, that's
looking to the outside.
You do what you do
because it feels good,
because you're living in
alignment to what you believe
in and what you want to attain.
You don't ever have
to speak a word.
You can just be there.
And I'll tell you, presence--
presence of being around
somebody like that
speaks a whole lot
louder than words do--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: --you know.
So if you want to try
to prove something,
like you're saying
an ego type of thing,
you can sink your
ship pretty fast.
You don't have to heal anybody.
You don't have to fix anybody.
Everybody has their own path.
And if you're choosing
yours, you're choosing yours.
>>REGINA: It's so true.
And I mean, I've
noticed with myself
we're getting into a
position, like getting firm
on a position about something
and being faced with someone
diametrically opposed,
where I'm thinking
but where's your logic, right?
But what I'm finding is if
I do that, my field becomes
depleted really rapidly now.
I mean, literally.
It's like all the energy is
sucked right out of my body
by going into that
state of egoic conflict.
>>SMITH: Well, you're
attuning to their level.
>>REGINA: Whatever it is,
all the energy is gone.
I'm finding it's just too
painful to engage in it.
Not that I'm over it yet.
I mean--
>>SMITH: Sure.
We get-- we have our hooks.
We have our hooks.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
we have our hooks.
You look at me in a
certain way, I'll--
I'll, you know, put up my dukes.
>>SMITH: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
A concept in shamanism that
I pay a lot of attention to
is the power of invoking.
So we invoke, have
invocations for the spirits
and for ceremony and things.
But invocation also happens
in thought or speech.
Like if we're sitting here
talking about positive things,
we're invoking really
high frequency energies
to be around us.
Where if we were to talk
about the low stuff,
the doom and the
gloom, the anti,
the things that are against
us, you know, all that's--
we're going to invoke that, too.
And so you pay attention
to where you are thinking
and what you are thinking
and what you are feeling,
and if you decide to go on
a path with somebody else.
And my rule of thumb is,
people don't get my joy,
you know, like--
I am not going to let
that go very easily.
And that would happen if they're
really pushing my buttons.
>>REGINA: Right.
That's it.
No, that's a good way to put it.
So this really requires
to take a pause,
to not let that hook come in.
And this is where
people really fall down
is not taking that pause and we
immediately go into reaction.
And this is basic cognitive
stuff, basic psychology.
But nonetheless, it has
a very profound effect
on our frequencies, which
they don't talk about
in standard psychology classes.
So what do you personally
employ to not let
that joy be stolen, to not let
that hook go in enough to where
you bite?
>>SMITH: Well, not that I'm
perfect at it, let me tell you.
>>REGINA: I know I'm not.
>>SMITH: And our families
will be some of our biggest--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SMITH: --hookers, if
you want to call it that.
However, I also
believe that we come
in with goals in our lives,
with purposes, with things
that we wish to attain as--
in our-- in our inner
akasha, so to speak.
And there's people that are
very interested in improving
and being better.
They're tired of the lack
of happiness or suffering
and they want self-improvement.
And I believe that when we
have family members that
are egging this on,
it's not to look at them
and what they're
doing, it's to look
at what it brings up in us.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: Because that is
a little clue about where
you need to pay attention.
Because often, that aggravation
or that frustration, or anger,
or hatred even that can
come up, is really a place
that you're feeling vulnerable,
undervalued, not worthy--
>>REGINA: Judged.
>>SMITH: --judged.
All these places within
you that are painful.
And that's actually what you
need to do the healings around.
And as you do that, we don't
need that antagonism anymore.
And again, things I think
will shift that outside world.
They're the outside world.
>>REGINA: No, I agree.
I mean, really, this time, it
brings to us the possibility
to be still long
enough to really start
working on our
spiritual maturity,
and our emotional maturity,
and our mental maturity.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We need to grow up.
As a species, we need to mature.
>>SMITH: We need to
ascend and mature.
>>REGINA: I call it mature.
That's part of
that path is that--
>>SMITH: The Earth is ascending,
and we're going with her.
And we either match it, or we're
pretty miserable, you know.
We're just-- we're in
the doldrums with it.
>>REGINA: I want to take it
a step further now-- this--
OK.
Get us out on a
controversial limb here.
And that is that the Earth has
her frequencies, and she is--
the Earth has her frequencies
and she is transcending,
you know.
And she's raising
her vibrations.
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: That's the
process of the Earth
has been going through
for quite a long time now.
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: We and everything
that lives, every living
system on the Earth, has
to match those frequencies
or you simply can't
stay with the Earth.
So I say it's a matter
of whether we choose
to continue incarnating
on this planet
and among the players
in our lives or not.
Because one theory is, if you
cannot match that frequency,
you're going to have
to incarnate elsewhere.
Now, some people might
say about now, great.
I'll go anywhere.
And I say, well, watch
what you wish for.
Because you're going to be
going into a similar frequency
that you're trying
to escape from.
So I think it's very--
I think it's critical, if you're
an earthling, a human being who
has come here to do this
dance and to learn to refine
ourselves on all levels, this is
a golden opportunity begging us
to grow up and to advance our--
our frequencies, to
refine our frequencies.
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
And I hold a little bit
of a different belief
around the Earth.
I see that the Earth is an
extremely advanced place,
because you're dealing with
mental, physical, emotional,
and spiritual energy
systems, where
a lot of the intergalactic
beings are not.
>>REGINA: They're not.
They don't have that
dimension that we have.
>>SMITH: Yes, they don't
have those dimensions.
And so we come here for
extremely advanced lessons.
Like I always say, calculus is
a lot harder than arithmetic.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: And-- but we also
are under the, I guess, rule,
or whatever, that you
don't get to remember
because that's-- if you
remembered, it'd be very easy.
You have a knowingness
of where to go.
And so again, I see
this as we've signed up
for some really advanced work.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
>>SMITH: And let's do it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And let's do it.
We've just been given
a golden opportunity
of a little bit of quiet, and
we have a lot of change coming.
The way the world looked
before January of 2020
will look a little different
now from this point forward.
And we get to create how
beautiful it is or isn't.
>>SMITH: Right.
>>REGINA: And so you're helping
people with this to recreate.
Let's just talk about
that for a few minutes
before we sign off here.
>>SMITH: Sure.
Well, my school that I have
is called "Light Song,"
and I've been mostly
in shamanism, you know,
it's a shamanic-based school.
But I decided to take all the
shamanic stuff that I know
and start putting it into a
more lay language, you know,
understanding.
Because not everybody
wants to learn shamanism.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SMITH: But shamanism
explains, at least to me,
and has defined it for
me, on how energy works
and how things are
created, how we
interact with the
non-physical beings, all
this different stuff.
And how to find that
center inside of yourself.
So I designed to
recreate for anybody
to give the basic tools of
how to work with energy,
and how to do that inner work.
Like let's go down and see
what's going on inside.
>>REGINA: In there and
start lifting the game.
>>SMITH: I say--
I call it, putting
a flashlight on those
elusive beliefs that
are hidden under there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: The spirits
call them blind beliefs,
that we have them.
We don't know-- even
know how we got them,
but they're running the show.
>>REGINA: They are.
And that is, essentially,
what the subconscious
is comprised of.
>>SMITH: That's what it is.
>>REGINA: But also,
this carries over
from perhaps many,
many lifetimes.
>>SMITH: They can, for sure.
>>REGINA: Even
what's going on right
now can be triggering us
because we've been in crises
before in other times.
And it maybe didn't
go well for us.
And so I think in
times of stress,
it's really important,
if you're being disturbed
by it, to look inside.
It can help a lot.
And you're really helping
guide people through this.
>>SMITH: I hope so.
I mean, I feel like I've
dedicated my life to it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SMITH: And I keep going
because I see success
constantly.
I see miracles happening.
And I get motivated with that.
It's beautiful to watch.
And I feel like there's
so much that people
can do for themselves if they
just have a handful of tools.
>>REGINA: I agree.
And you've got the tools, girl.
Jan, thank you so much for
your beautiful presence
and your time.
And I love the fact that
you actually walk your talk.
You do maintain that joy inside.
And you do make it a commitment
to yourself, to your own being,
to maintain those high
frequencies and that joy.
And that's something
that all of us
need to start making
a priority now.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We don't
have a choice anymore.
The quality of the life
we're going to experience
is dependent on it now.
>>SMITH: Well, you know,
you mentioned January 2020,
and that's when my
husband passed away.
>>REGINA: I know.
>>SMITH: And this has been
something that it's really
taken me right down to my core.
And I can see now how it's
saving me on so many levels
to have that understanding,
you know, to move through this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you've been very graceful
in a very difficult time
where this man has
been your best friend.
And this was very
sudden and unexpected.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so--
>>SMITH: But thank you.
And you've been so helpful with
me through all this, Regina.
I'm so thankful for that.
Well, thank you.
>>REGINA: We have
mutual respect.
So-- so much-- again,
thank you so much, Jan,
for taking the time to be
here and share all this--
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --necessary--
beautiful and necessary
information with us.
>>SMITH: Thank you.
I hope people just feel better.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
If you'd like to join
in with Jan's "Recreate"
course, or other courses, you
can find them at lightsong.net.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]